# trimming_and_af_correction_script

A custom Python script used to analyze cell fluorescence distributions. .fcs files are first processed by FlowCal using the excel interface. trim_and_af_correct_script.py is then run to trim outlier events, calculate mean and noise of fluorescence distributions, and perform background subtraction based on a “white cell” sample. The fluorescence channel (FL1 or FL3) in which to perform analysis is specified within the script and must be run once per channel. Results of the analysis are appended to the experiment_output.xlxs file in the “trimmed” tab. Plots of the fluorescence distributions and the thresholds used to trim outliers are generated in the “plt” folder.

## Required software

FlowCal v1.2.2 (https://github.com/taborlab/FlowCal)

Python 3.7 distribution (recommended: Anaconda 2020.02)

## Usage
- Run FlowCal with the "experiment.xlsx" file in the "test data" folder.

- Set trimming_and_af_correction_script.py parameters
  - *fc_data_path_w*: Path of an experiment output file generated by FlowCal which contains a white cell sample to be used for background subtraction
  -  *sample_ids_w*: Sample ID of the white cell sample within *fc_data_path_w*
  -  *channel_w*: Fluorescence channel ("FL1", or "FL3") in which to analyze white cell sample
  - *fc_data_path*: Path of an experiment output file generated by FlowCal which contains experimental samples to be analyzed
  - *channel*: Fluorescence channel ("FL1", or "FL3") in which to analyze experimental samples
  - *thresh_w*: Density estimate threshold for white cells below which events are eliminated
  - *bw_w*: Density estimate bandwidth for white cells
  - *thresh*: Density estimate threshold for experimental samples below which events are eliminated
  - *bw*: Density estimate bandwidth for white cells

- Run trimming_and_af_correction_script.py
- Assess trimming success by visualizing plots generated in "plt" folder. Black vertical lines indicate full range of data. Red vertical lines indicate range of data after trimming.
- Analysis results are appended to the "experiment_output.xlsx" file in "trimmed" tab. Mean and noise after trimming and background subtraction are reported in the "GFP/RFP Mean (Trimmed)" and "GFP/RFP CV (Trimmed)" columns.
 
## Author
Evan Olson

## License
Copyright (c) 2021, Evan Olson

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.